the second and final day of oral
arguments in the international court of
justice gave Israel a chance to respond
to allegations it's committing genocide
in Gaza and is doing so with intent its
lawyers began by turning the argument on
its head that if there have been acts
that may be characterized as
genocidal then they have been per
perpetrated against Israel Israel argues
that the nature of intensive Urban
combat means there will be civilian
casualties but it won't acknowledge a
death toll that International noos and
even the UN itself relies upon the court
is told of over 23,000
casualties as the applicant repeats as
many have unverified statistics provided
by Hamas itself hardly a reliable
source South Africa submission of nine
pages of comment by senior Israeli
leadership detailing what it says
demonstrates genocidal intent
M cherry picking says Israel there is
little Beyond random assertions to
demonstrate that Israel has or has had
the specific intent to destroy in whole
or in part A Palestinian people as
such Israel says its continuing efforts
to ramp up humanitarian assistance in
Gaza indicate the opposite of genocidal
intent there is no restriction on the
amount of water water that may enter
Gaza Israel continues to supply its own
water to Gaza by two pipelines a lawyer
representing South Africa however
directly references Israel's defense
minister yoa Galan as Israel was
imposing a Complete Siege on Gaza there
would be no electricity no food no water
no
fuel everything would be closed because
Israel is fighting human
the un's top legal body the icj exists
to settle valid disputes between states
Israel say South Africa's application
fails on this aspect alone denying the
Court's Jurisdiction it seems to believe
but it does not take two to tango it is
sufficient if one state determines there
is a dispute that a dispute existed when
the application was filed by South
Africa in late December is a matter of
public record at this time South Africa
had already accused Israel in the
security Council the general assembly
and other public
fora of engaging in genocidal acts it
had conducted a diplomatic dayar on
Israel warning it that it viewed its
conduct as
genocidal Israel accuses South Africa of
acting not on behalf of Palestinians but
as what it called the legal arm of the
Hamas terrorist organization South
Africa denied that charge and insist
it's doing everything it can to stop
more harm being done to the
Palestinians a landmark case here at the
international court of justice with
South Africa making a compelling
argument why it believes Israel is
committing genocide in Gaza and Israel
saying it's acting in self-defense and
accusing Hamas of being genocidal
whatever the outcome see Israel for the
first time in the dock is considered a
win for international Justice and it
shows the sheer gravity of the situation
in
Gaza a decision by the court on an
urgent injunction is expected in a few
weeks step fast in Al jazer in the
he make sure to subscribe to our channel
to get the latest news from Al jazer